Background

There are 500,000 people in Florida who are eligible for the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits but do not utilize them.

In the following exercise, you will analyze a random sample of the Floridians on
SNAP to identify trends in populations that are potentially underrepresented,
synthesize user quotes for key leverage points/insights, and develop target
interventions for those who are not utilizing SNAP.
Underrepresented populations are those that make up a smaller percentage of
SNAP recipients than their proportional representation with the Floridian population
that qualifies for SNAP. Assume that the demography of the Florida population is
similar to that of the Florida population that qualifies for SNAP (with the exception of
educational attainment).


Part 1 - Clean and Analyze the Data
A. Attached is a CSV, composed of data on randomly selected Floridians that
receive SNAP. Please provide a short description of the contents of the dataset
and some of the fields that you predict will be important for your analysis.

B. Please provide some visualizations of the data and describe any insights that
can be drawn in terms of the population breakdown of the Floridians on food
stamps. In what ways did you have to clean the data?

C. Which populations may be underrepresented in the provided data? For your
reference, here are some specifics about the population of Florida (feel free to
find others and list your assumptions/references):
a. Language
b. Race and household size
c. Population by County


Part 2 - Synthesis of User Pain Points
Please use the following user quotes to provide analysis of some of the pain points
that may be preventing people from receiving SNAP. Feel free to communicate your
findings in bullets or paragraph form.

User quotes:
1. “I received a raise last year so based on what I saw a few years ago I am no
longer eligible.”
2. “My father is a libertarian so does not believe in government hand-outs.”
3. “The last I heard people on social security are not eligible for food stamps
because we exceed the maximum pay.”
4. “My grandmother does not have much familiarity with technology and is not
able to apply in person right now due to COVID-19.”
5. “I receive decent pay as a nurse but it does not stretch far given I have seven
kids.”
6. “My son doesn’t have time to apply for me.”
7. “What is SNAP? I don’t think I’ve heard of it before. Maybe a different name?”
8. “It’s been 4 months since I applied, and I tried re-submitting my documents 3
times. They keep saying that my documents are incorrect, but why?”

Part 3 - Other Data Required
Please identify other data you would like to analyze to identify key leverage points to
enable more Floridians to receive SNAP.

Part 4 - Propose a Hypothesis
Please propose a hypothesis of why one population is systematically
underrepresented in those receiving SNAP benefits given your analysis of user
quotes and data. What are the key parts of your hypothesis that you must test and
what metrics would indicate your hypothesis is correct?
